---
technique_id: T0815
name: "Denial of View"
tactics:
  - "Impact"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0105
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0815
---

# Denial of View

## Description
Adversaries may cause a denial of view in attempt to disrupt and prevent operator oversight on the status of an ICS environment. This may manifest itself as a temporary communication failure between a device and its control source, where the interface recovers and becomes available once the interference ceases. 

An adversary may attempt to deny operator visibility by preventing them from receiving status and reporting messages. Denying this view may temporarily block and prevent operators from noticing a change in state or anomalous behavior. The environment's data and processes may still be operational, but functioning in an unintended or adversarial manner. 

## Mitigations

### Out-of-Band Communications Channel
Have alternative methods to support communication requirements during communication failures and data integrity attacks.

### Data Backup
Take and store data backups from end user systems and critical servers. Ensure backup and storage systems are hardened and kept separate from the corporate network to prevent compromise.   Maintain and exercise incident response plans, including the management of  'gold-copy' back-up images and configurations for key systems to enable quick recovery and response from adversarial activities that impact control, view, or availability.

### Redundancy of Service
Redundancy could be provided for both critical ICS devices and services, such as back-up devices or hot-standbys.
