---
technique_id: T0817
name: "Drive-by Compromise"
tactics:
  - "Initial Access"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0108
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0817
---

# Drive-by Compromise

## Description
Adversaries may gain access to a system during a drive-by compromise, when a user visits a website as part of a regular browsing session. With this technique, the user's web browser is targeted and exploited simply by visiting the compromised website. 

The adversary may target a specific community, such as trusted third party suppliers or other industry specific groups, which often visit the target website. This kind of targeted attack relies on a common interest, and is known as a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. 

The National Cyber Awareness System (NCAS) has issued a Technical Alert (TA) regarding Russian government cyber activity targeting critical infrastructure sectors. Analysis by DHS and FBI has noted two distinct categories of victims in the Dragonfly campaign on the Western energy sector: staging and intended targets. The adversary targeted the less secure networks of staging targets, including trusted third-party suppliers and related peripheral organizations. Initial access to the intended targets used watering hole attacks to target process control, ICS, and critical infrastructure related trade publications and informational websites.

## Mitigations

### Update Software
Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. Software updates may need to be scheduled around operational down times.

### Application Isolation and Sandboxing
Restrict the execution of code to a virtual environment on or in-transit to an endpoint system.

### Exploit Protection
Use capabilities to detect and block conditions that may lead to or be indicative of a software exploit occurring.

### Restrict Web-Based Content
Restrict use of certain websites, block downloads/attachments, block Javascript, restrict browser extensions, etc.
