---
technique_id: T0820
name: "Exploitation for Evasion"
tactics:
  - "Evasion"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0103
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0820
---

# Exploitation for Evasion

## Description
Adversaries may exploit a software vulnerability to take advantage of a programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to evade detection. Vulnerabilities may exist in software that can be used to disable or circumvent security features.  

Adversaries may have prior knowledge through Remote System Information Discovery about security features implemented on control devices. These device security features will likely be targeted directly for exploitation. There are examples of firmware RAM/ROM consistency checks on control devices being targeted by adversaries to enable the installation of malicious System Firmware.

## Mitigations

### Threat Intelligence Program
A threat intelligence program helps an organization generate their own threat intelligence information and track trends to inform defensive priorities to mitigate risk.

### Exploit Protection
Use capabilities to detect and block conditions that may lead to or be indicative of a software exploit occurring.

### Application Isolation and Sandboxing
Restrict the execution of code to a virtual environment on or in-transit to an endpoint system.

### Update Software
Perform regular software updates to mitigate exploitation risk. Software updates may need to be scheduled around operational down times.
