---
technique_id: T0842
name: "Network Sniffing"
tactics:
  - "Discovery"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0102
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0842
---

# Network Sniffing

## Description
Network sniffing is the practice of using a network interface on a computer system to monitor or capture information regardless of whether it is the specified destination for the information. 

An adversary may attempt to sniff the traffic to gain information about the target. This information can vary in the level of importance. Relatively unimportant information is general communications to and from machines.  Relatively important information would be login information. User credentials may be sent over an unencrypted protocol, such as Telnet, that can be captured and obtained through network packet analysis. 

In addition, ARP and Domain Name Service (DNS) poisoning can be used to capture credentials to websites, proxies, and internal systems by redirecting traffic to an adversary.

## Mitigations

### Privileged Account Management
Manage the creation, modification, use, and permissions associated to privileged accounts, including SYSTEM and root.

### Network Segmentation
Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

### Multi-factor Authentication
Use two or more pieces of evidence to authenticate to a system; such as username and password in addition to a token from a physical smart card or token generator.  Within industrial control environments assets such as low-level controllers, workstations, and HMIs have real-time operational control and safety requirements which may restrict the use of multi-factor.

### Encrypt Network Traffic
Utilize strong cryptographic techniques and protocols to prevent eavesdropping on network communications.

### Static Network Configuration
Configure hosts and devices to use static network configurations when possible, protocols that require dynamic discovery/addressing (e.g., ARP, DHCP, DNS) can be used to manipulate network message forwarding and enable various AiTM attacks. This mitigation may not always be usable due to limited device features or challenges introduced with different network configurations.
