---
technique_id: T0846.001
name: "Port Scan"
tactics:
  - "Discovery"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0102
is_subtechnique: true
parent_technique: T0846
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0846/001
---

# Port Scan

## Description
Adversaries may perform a port scan on a system, device, or network to identify live hosts, enumerate open ports and running services, identify operating systems, and map out the network. The results of a port scan may inform adversary Discovery, Lateral Movement, and vulnerability exploitation decisions (Exploitation for Evasion, Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, Exploitation of Remote Services). 

Some common tools for executing a port scan include `nmap`, `netcat`, and the Advanced Port Scanner.

## Mitigations

### Static Network Configuration
Configure hosts and devices to use static network configurations when possible, protocols that require dynamic discovery/addressing (e.g., ARP, DHCP, DNS) can be used to manipulate network message forwarding and enable various AiTM attacks. This mitigation may not always be usable due to limited device features or challenges introduced with different network configurations.

### Network Segmentation
Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

### Network Intrusion Prevention
Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries.  In industrial control environments, network intrusion prevention should be configured so it will not disrupt protocols and communications responsible for real-time functions related to control or safety.
