---
technique_id: T0863
name: "User Execution"
tactics:
  - "Execution"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0104
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0863
---

# User Execution

## Description
Adversaries may rely on a targeted organizations user interaction for the execution of malicious code. User interaction may consist of installing applications, opening email attachments, or granting higher permissions to documents. 

Adversaries may embed malicious code or visual basic code into files such as Microsoft Word and Excel documents or software installers. Execution of this code requires that the user enable scripting or write access within the document. Embedded code may not always be noticeable to the user especially in cases of trojanized software. 

A Chinese spearphishing campaign running from December 9, 2011 through February 29, 2012 delivered malware through spearphishing attachments which required user action to achieve execution.

## Mitigations

### Execution Prevention
Block execution of code on a system through application control, and/or script blocking.

### Restrict Web-Based Content
Restrict use of certain websites, block downloads/attachments, block Javascript, restrict browser extensions, etc.

### User Training
Train users to be aware of access or manipulation attempts by an adversary to reduce the risk of successful spearphishing, social engineering, and other techniques that involve user interaction.

### Network Intrusion Prevention
Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries.  In industrial control environments, network intrusion prevention should be configured so it will not disrupt protocols and communications responsible for real-time functions related to control or safety.

### Antivirus/Antimalware
Use signatures or heuristics to detect malicious software.  Within industrial control environments, antivirus/antimalware installations should be limited to assets that are not involved in critical or real-time operations. To minimize the impact to system availability, all products should first be validated within a representative test environment before deployment to production systems.

### Code Signing
Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing.
