---
technique_id: T0860
name: "Wireless Compromise"
tactics:
  - "Initial Access"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0108
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0860
---

# Wireless Compromise

## Description
Adversaries may perform wireless compromise as a method of gaining communications and unauthorized access to a wireless network. Access to a wireless network may be gained through the compromise of a wireless device. Adversaries may also utilize radios and other wireless communication devices on the same frequency as the wireless network. Wireless compromise can be done as an initial access vector from a remote distance. 

A Polish student used a modified TV remote controller to gain access to and control over the Lodz city tram system in Poland. The remote controller device allowed the student to interface with the trams network to modify track settings and override operator control. The adversary may have accomplished this by aligning the controller to the frequency and amplitude of IR control protocol signals. The controller then enabled initial access to the network, allowing the capture and replay of tram signals.

## Mitigations

### Communication Authenticity
When communicating over an untrusted network, utilize secure network protocols that both authenticate the message sender and can verify its integrity. This can be done either through message authentication codes (MACs) or digital signatures, to detect spoofed network messages and unauthorized connections.

### Software Process and Device Authentication
Require the authentication of devices and software processes where appropriate. Devices that connect remotely to other systems should require strong authentication to prevent spoofing of communications. Furthermore, software processes should also require authentication when accessing APIs.

### Minimize Wireless Signal Propagation
Wireless signals frequently propagate outside of organizational boundaries, which provide opportunities for adversaries to monitor or gain unauthorized access to the wireless network. To minimize this threat, organizations should implement measures to detect, understand, and reduce unnecessary RF propagation.

### Encrypt Network Traffic
Utilize strong cryptographic techniques and protocols to prevent eavesdropping on network communications.
