---
technique_id: T0873.001
name: "Siemens Project File Format"
tactics:
  - "Persistence"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0110
is_subtechnique: true
parent_technique: T0873
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0873/001
---

# Siemens Project File Format

## Description
Adversaries may infect Siemens PLC project files (i.e., Step 7, WinCC, etc.) to achieve Execution, Persistence, and Lateral Movement objectives. Adversaries may modify an existing project file or bring their own project files into the environment.

The ability for an adversary to deploy an infected project file relies on access to a workstation with Siemens PLC programming software installed on it from which a program download can be performed.

## Mitigations

### Code Signing
Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing.

### Encrypt Sensitive Information
Protect sensitive data-at-rest with strong encryption.

### Audit
Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. Perform periodic integrity checks of the device to validate the correctness of the firmware, software, programs, and configurations. Integrity checks, which typically include cryptographic hashes or digital signatures, should be compared to those obtained at known valid states, especially after events like device reboots, program downloads, or program restarts.

### Restrict File and Directory Permissions
Restrict access by setting directory and file permissions that are not specific to users or privileged accounts.
