---
technique_id: T0885
name: "Commonly Used Port"
tactics:
  - "Command and Control"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0101
platforms:
  - "None"
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0885
---

# Commonly Used Port

## Description
Adversaries may communicate over a commonly used port to bypass firewalls or network detection systems and to blend in with normal network activity, to avoid more detailed inspection. They may use the protocol associated with the port, or a completely different protocol. They may use commonly open ports, such as the examples provided below. 
 
 * TCP:80 (HTTP) 
 * TCP:443 (HTTPS) 
 * TCP/UDP:53 (DNS) 
 * TCP:1024-4999 (OPC on XP/Win2k3) 
 * TCP:49152-65535 (OPC on Vista and later) 
 * TCP:23 (TELNET) 
 * UDP:161 (SNMP) 
 * TCP:502 (MODBUS) 
 * TCP:102 (S7comm/ISO-TSAP) 
 * TCP:20000 (DNP3) 
 * TCP:44818 (Ethernet/IP)

## Mitigations

### Human User Authentication
Require user authentication before allowing access to data or accepting commands to a device. While strong multi-factor authentication is preferable, it is not always feasible within ICS environments. Performing strong user authentication also requires additional security controls and processes which are often the target of related adversarial techniques (e.g., Valid Accounts, Default Credentials). Therefore, associated ATT&CK mitigations should be considered in addition to this, including Multi-factor Authentication, Account Use Policies, Password Policies, User Account Management, Privileged Account Management, and User Account Control.

### Network Intrusion Prevention
Use intrusion detection signatures to block traffic at network boundaries.  In industrial control environments, network intrusion prevention should be configured so it will not disrupt protocols and communications responsible for real-time functions related to control or safety.

### Network Segmentation
Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

### Disable or Remove Feature or Program
Remove or deny access to unnecessary and potentially vulnerable software to prevent abuse by adversaries.
