---
technique_id: T1695
name: "Block Communications"
tactics:
  - "Inhibit Response Function"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0107
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1695
---

# Block Communications

## Description
Operational technology communications occur over serial COM, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, cellular (4G/5G), and satellite mediums. Adversaries may block communications to prevent reporting messages and command messages from reaching their intended target devices disrupting processes, operations, and causing cyber-physical impacts.  

Adversaries may block communications by either making modifications to software (System Firmware, Module Firmware, Hooking, and Rootkit) and services (Service Stop, Denial of Service) on systems and devices or by positioning themselves between systems and devices and intercepting and blocking the communications such as the case with an Adversary-in-the-Middle attack.

## Mitigations

### Out-of-Band Communications Channel
Have alternative methods to support communication requirements during communication failures and data integrity attacks.

### Network Segmentation
Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

### Network Allowlists
Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in Filter Network Traffic mitigation.
