---
technique_id: T1691
name: "Block Operational Technology Message"
tactics:
  - "Inhibit Response Function"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0107
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1691
---

# Block Operational Technology Message

## Description
Adversaries may block messages between systems and devices in an OT/ICS environment to disrupt processes. Messages typically fall into two categories: (1) reporting messages that contain telemetry data about the current state of systems, devices, and processes and (2) command messages that contain instructions to control systems, devices, and processes. Both types of messages are critical for the proper functioning of industrial control processes and failure of the messages to reach their intended destinations could inhibit response functions or create an unsafe condition that could have physical impacts.

Adversaries may block communications by either making modifications to software (System Firmware, Module Firmware, Hooking, and Rootkit) and services (Service Stop, Denial of Service) on systems and devices or by positioning themselves between systems and devices and intercepting and blocking the communications such as the case with an Adversary-in-the-Middle attack.

## Mitigations

### Out-of-Band Communications Channel
Have alternative methods to support communication requirements during communication failures and data integrity attacks.

### Static Network Configuration
Configure hosts and devices to use static network configurations when possible, protocols that require dynamic discovery/addressing (e.g., ARP, DHCP, DNS) can be used to manipulate network message forwarding and enable various AiTM attacks. This mitigation may not always be usable due to limited device features or challenges introduced with different network configurations.

### Network Allowlists
Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in Filter Network Traffic mitigation.
