---
technique_id: T1694.001
name: "Default Credentials"
tactics:
  - "Persistence"
  - "Lateral Movement"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0110
  - TA0109
is_subtechnique: true
parent_technique: T1694
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1694/001
---

# Default Credentials

## Description
Adversaries may leverage manufacturer or supplier set default credentials on control system devices. These default credentials may have administrative permissions and may be necessary for initial configuration of the device. It is general best practice to change the passwords for these accounts as soon as possible, but some manufacturers may have devices that have passwords or usernames that cannot be changed.

Default credentials are normally documented in an instruction manual that is either packaged with the device, published online through official means, or published online through unofficial means. Adversaries may leverage default credentials that have not been properly modified or disabled.

## Mitigations

### Password Policies
Set and enforce secure password policies for accounts.

### Access Management
Access Management technologies can be used to enforce authorization polices and decisions, especially when existing field devices do not provide sufficient capabilities to support user identification and authentication. These technologies typically utilize an in-line network device or gateway system to prevent access to unauthenticated users, while also integrating with an authentication service to first verify user credentials.
