---
technique_id: T1692
name: "Unauthorized Message"
tactics:
  - "Evasion"
  - "Impair Process Control"
tactic_ids:
  - TA0103
  - TA0106
is_subtechnique: false
source: MITRE ATT&CK for ICS
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1692
---

# Unauthorized Message

## Description
Adversaries may send unauthorized messages to ICS systems and devices to evade defenses or manipulate processes. Unauthorized messages can be categorized as either reporting messages that contain telemetry data about the current state of systems, devices, and processes or as command messages which instruct systems and devices on how to operate. By injecting unauthorized messages, adversaries can make it appear as if everything is working correctly when it isn’t, trigger alarms to misdirect personnel or impact processes, and manipulate controls to disrupt processes.

Adversaries may send unauthorized messages in an ICS environment using software found within the environment (living-off-the-land, vendor-specific interfaces, etc.), custom tooling leveraging OT protocols and libraries, or by positioning themselves between systems and devices and injecting messages into the communications such as the case with an Adversary-in-the-Middle attack.

## Mitigations

### Software Process and Device Authentication
Require the authentication of devices and software processes where appropriate. Devices that connect remotely to other systems should require strong authentication to prevent spoofing of communications. Furthermore, software processes should also require authentication when accessing APIs.

### Network Allowlists
Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in Filter Network Traffic mitigation.

### Network Segmentation
Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

### Communication Authenticity
When communicating over an untrusted network, utilize secure network protocols that both authenticate the message sender and can verify its integrity. This can be done either through message authentication codes (MACs) or digital signatures, to detect spoofed network messages and unauthorized connections.

### Filter Network Traffic
Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic.   Perform inline allow/denylisting of network messages based on the application layer (OSI Layer 7) protocol, especially for automation protocols. Application allowlists are beneficial when there are well-defined communication sequences, types, rates, or patterns needed during expected system operations. Application denylists may be needed if all acceptable communication sequences cannot be defined, but instead a set of known malicious uses can be denied (e.g., excessive communication  attempts, shutdown messages, invalid commands).  Devices performing these functions are often referred to as deep-packet inspection (DPI) firewalls, context-aware firewalls, or firewalls blocking specific automation/SCADA protocol aware firewalls.
