---
alert_code: ICSA-26-127-01
title: "MAXHUB Pivot Client Application"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-127-01
release_date: "2026-05-07"
vendor: "MAXHUB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 7.3
cves:
  - CVE-2026-6411
cwe:
  - CWE-327
sectors:
  - "Information Technology"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  MAXHUB Pivot Client Application
Release Date
May 07, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-127-01

## Summary
**Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may enable an attacker to access tenant email addresses and associated information in cleartext or cause a denial-of-service condition.**
The following versions of MAXHUB Pivot client application are affected:
  * MAXHUB Pivot client application

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 7.3  |  **Vendor** MAXHUB  |  **Equipment** MAXHUB Pivot client application  |  **Vulnerabilities** Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Information Technology
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** United States

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2026-6411
This vulnerability, in the MAXHUB Pivot client application versions prior to v1.36.2, may allow an attacker to obtain encrypted tenant email addresses and related metadata from any tenant. Due to the presence of a hardcoded AES key within the application, the encrypted data can be decrypted, enabling access to tenant email addresses and associated information in cleartext. Furthermore, an attacker may be able to cause a denial-of-service condition by enrolling multiple unauthorized devices into a tenant via MQTT, potentially disrupting tenant operations.

#### Affected Products
##### MAXHUB Pivot client application
**Vendor:**  
MAXHUB
**Product Version:**  
MAXHUB MAXHUB Pivot client application: <v1.36.2
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Mitigation**  
MAXHUB recommends users upgrade the Pivot client application to v1.36.2 or newer. The remediation has been made available through an OTA update. Users running v1.36.2 or later are not affected and need only ensure they continue to maintain the latest version. At this time, MAXHUB is not aware of any public exploitation of this issue. For more information, see the MAXHUB support page.  

**Relevant CWE:** CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 7.3  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Malik MAKKES and Yassine BENGANA of Abicom Groupe OCI reported this vulnerability to MAXHUB
