---
alert_code: ICSA-26-155-05
title: "Hitachi Energy MACH HiDraw"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-155-05
release_date: "2026-06-04"
vendor: "Hitachi Energy"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 5.5
cves:
  - CVE-2026-7310
cwe:
  - CWE-122
sectors:
  - "Dams"
  - "Energy"
  - "Transportation Systems"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Hitachi Energy MACH HiDraw
Release Date
June 04, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-155-05

## Summary
**Hitachi Energy is aware of a buffer overflow vulnerability that affects MACH HiDraw product versions listed in this document. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead to a buffer overflow condition, potentially resulting in application outages (denial of service) and possible arbitrary code execution. Please refer to the Recommended Immediate Actions for information about the mitigation/remediation.**
The following versions of Hitachi Energy MACH HiDraw are affected:
  * MACH HiDraw vers:MACH_HiDraw/<=9.22 (CVE-2026-7310)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 5.5  |  **Vendor** Hitachi Energy  |  **Equipment** Hitachi Energy MACH HiDraw  |  **Vulnerabilities** Heap-based Buffer Overflow  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Dams, Energy, Transportation Systems
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2026-7310
A heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability exists in XML parser functionality in the HiDraw. An authenticated malicious user with local access can exploit this vulnerability using a specially crafted XML file which may lead to memory corruption and potential arbitrary code execution. Successful exploitation could result in application crashes (denial of service) and compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the affected system.

#### Affected Products
##### Hitachi Energy MACH HiDraw
**Vendor:**  
Hitachi Energy
**Product Version:**  
MACH HiDraw version 9.22 and prior
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
Fixed in version 9.23. Due to the complexity of individual implementation of the project, contact local account team for further information on possible upgrades.
**Mitigation**  
Hitachi's General Mitigation Factors/Workarounds: Recommended security practices and firewall configurations can help protect a process control network from attacks that originate from outside the network. Such practices include that process control systems are physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and others that have to be evaluated case by case. Process control systems should not be used for Internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving e-mails. Portable computers and removable storage media should be carefully scanned for viruses before they are connected to a control system. Proper password policies and processes should be followed.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-122 Heap-based Buffer Overflow

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 5.5  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:H  |  
|  **CVSS Version** 4.0  |  **Base Score** 4.4  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:H/AT:P/PR:L/UI:A/VC:L/VI:L/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Hitachi Energy Internal Team reported this vulnerability to CISA. 

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by Hitachi Energy. Hitachi Energy provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall Hitachi Energy or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if Hitachi Energy or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from Hitachi Energy and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Support
For additional information and support please contact your product provider or Hitachi Energy service organization. For contact information, see https://www.hitachienergy.com/contact-us/ for Hitachi Energy contact-centers.

## General Mitigation Factors
Recommended security practices and firewall configurations can help protect a process control network from attacks that originate from outside the network. Such practices include that process control systems are physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and others that have to be evaluated case by case. Process control systems should not be used for Internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving e-mails. Portable computers and removable storage media should be carefully scanned for viruses before they are connected to a control system. Proper password policies and processes should be followed. Additional information on Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity Best Practices can be found in the following Hitachi Energy Cybersecurity Notification. Cybersecurity Advisory - Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity Best Practices

## SSVC
SSVCv2/E:N/A:N/2026-05-26T09:04:54Z/
