---
alert_code: ICSA-26-169-07
title: "Schneider Electric Easergy, EcoStruxture, PowerLogic, and Saitel Products"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-169-07
release_date: "2026-06-18"
vendor: "Schneider Electric"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 8.3
cves:
  - CVE-2026-4827
cwe:
  - CWE-331
sectors:
  - "Chemical"
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
  - "Energy"
  - "Water and Wastewater"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Schneider Electric Easergy, EcoStruxture, PowerLogic, and Saitel Products
Release Date
June 18, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-169-07

## Summary
**Schneider Electric is aware of vulnerabilities in its PowerChute™ Serial Shutdown product. The PowerChute Serial Shutdown product is a UPS management software enabling graceful system shutdown and energy management capabilities for desktop, servers and workstations. Failure to apply the remediation provided below may risk improper input validation which could result in disruption of operations and access to system data.**
The following versions of Schneider Electric Easergy, EcoStruxture, PowerLogic, and Saitel Products are affected:
  * Easergy MiCOM C264 vers:generic/<=D7.33 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P139 vers:generic/<=P139.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P437 vers:generic/<=P437.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P439 vers:generic/<=P439.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P532 vers:generic/<=P532.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P539 vers:generic/<=P539.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P631 vers:generic/<=P631.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P632 vers:generic/<=P632.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P633 vers:generic/<=P633.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P634 vers:generic/<=P634.678.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P633 P633.680.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P634 P634.680.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P138 vers:generic/<=P138.677.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P436 vers:generic/<=P436.677.701 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P438 vers:generic/<=P438.677.701 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM P638 vers:generic/<=P638.677.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy MiCOM C434 vers:generic/<=C434.679.700 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * EcoStruxure Power Automation System Gateway (EPAS-GTW) vers:intdot/<=6.4.616.200.100 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * EcoStruxure Power Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI) vers:intdot/<=3.0.3 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * EcoStruxure Power Operation vers:generic/<=2022_CU6 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * EcoStruxure Power Operation vers:generic/<=2024_CU2 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * iPMFLS vers:intdot/<=64.2025.0.13 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * PowerLogic P5 Protection Relay vers:intdot/<=02.502.103 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * PowerLogic P7 Protection and Control Platform vers:intdot/<=02.002.002 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * PowerLogic T300 vers:intdot/<=2.9.4 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * PowerLogic T500 vers:intdot/<=11.08.02 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Saitel DP vers:intdot/<=11.06.36 ()
  * EasyLogic T150 (formerly Saitel DR) vers:intdot/<=11.06.30 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM C264 D7.34 ()
  * Easergy C5 vers:intdot/<=1.1.17 (CVE-2026-4827)
  * Easergy C5 1.1.18 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P139 version P139.678.700 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P439 P439.678.700 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P539 P539.678.700 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P632 P632.678.700 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P633 P633.680.701 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P634 P634.680.701 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P633 P633.678.700 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P138 P138.677.701 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM C434 C434.679.700 ()
  * Saitel DR 11.06.31 ()
  * EcoStruxure Power Automation System Gateway (EPAS-GTW) 6.4.610.500.101 ()
  * EcoStruxure Power Automation Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI) 3.0.4 ()
  * EcoStruxure Power Operation 2022_CU7 ()
  * EcoStruxure Power Operation (EPO) 2024_CU3 ()
  * iPMFLS 64.2025.0.14 ()
  * PowerLogic P5 Protection Relay 02.503.101 ()
  * PowerLogic P7 Protection and Control Platform 02.003.001 ()
  * PowerLogic T300 2.9.5 ()
  * PowerLogic T500 11.08.03 ()
  * Saitel DP 11.06.37 ()
  * Easergy MiCOM P40 Series vers:all/* (CVE-2026-4827)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 8.3  |  **Vendor** Schneider Electric  |  **Equipment** Schneider Electric Easergy, EcoStruxture, PowerLogic, and Saitel Products  |  **Vulnerabilities** Insufficient Entropy  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Water and Wastewater
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** France

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2026-4827
CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy vulnerability exists that could lead to unauthorized access when an attacker on the network can exploit weaknesses in session‑management protections.

#### Affected Products
##### Schneider Electric Easergy, EcoStruxture, PowerLogic, and Saitel Products
**Vendor:**  
Schneider Electric
**Product Version:**  
Easergy MiCOM C264 Versions D7.33 and prior, Easergy MiCOM P139 version prior to P139.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P437 version prior to P437.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P439 version prior to P439.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P532 version prior to P532.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P539 version prior to P539.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P631 version prior to P631.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P632 version prior to P632.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P633 version prior to P633.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P634 version prior to P634.678.700, Easergy MiCOM P633 version P633.680.700, Easergy MiCOM P634 version P634.680.700 , Easergy MiCOM P138 version prior to P138.677.700, Easergy MiCOM P436 version prior to P436.677.701, Easergy MiCOM P438 version prior to P438.677.701, Easergy MiCOM P638 version prior to P638.677.700, Easergy MiCOM C434 version prior to C434.679.700, EcoStruxure Power Automation System Gateway (EPAS-GTW) Version 6.4.616.200.100 and prior, EcoStruxure Power Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI) Version 3.0.3 and prior, EcoStruxure Power Operation (EPO) 2022 CU6 and prior, EcoStruxure Power Operation (EPO) 2024 CU2 and prior, iPMFLS Version 64.2025.0.13 and prior, PowerLogic P5 Protection Relay V02.502.103 and prior, PowerLogic P7 Protection and Control Platform V02.002.002 and prior, PowerLogic T300 Version 2.9.4 and prior, PowerLogic T500 Version 11.08.02 and prior, Easergy C5 Version 1.1.17 and prior, Easergy MiCOM P40 Series model numbers with Protocol Option bit as G, H or L and all firmware versions
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
Version D7.34 of MiCOM C264 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device. Reboot is required
**Vendor fix**  
Version 1.1.18 of Easergy C5 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device. Reboot is required
**Vendor fix**  
Version P139.678.700 Easergy MiCOM P139 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P439.678.700 Easergy MiCOM P439 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P539.678.700 Easergy MiCOM P539 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P632.678.700 Easergy MiCOM P632 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P633.678.700 Easergy MiCOM P633 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P634.680.701 Easergy MiCOM P634 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P633.680.701 Easergy MiCOM P633 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version P138.677.701 Easergy MiCOM P138 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version C434.679.700 Easergy MiCOM C434 includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
HUe Firmware version 11.06.31 includes a fix for this vulnerability and is available for download here: . Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this software. A reboot is needed to complete the firmware upgrade
**Vendor fix**  
Version 6.4.610.500.101 of EPAS Gateway includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this software
**Vendor fix**  
Version 3.0.4 of EPAS-UI includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this software.
**Vendor fix**  
EPO 2022 CU 7 of EcoStruxure™ Power Operation includes a fix for this vulnerability and is available for download here: • https://community.se.com/t5/EcoStruxure-PowerOperation/Power-Operation-2022-CU7-is-Now-Available/tdp/524787 Reboot needed: yes  

**Vendor fix**  
EPO 2024 CU 3 of EcoStruxure™ Power Operation includes a fix for this vulnerability and is available for download here: • https://community.se.com/t5/EcoStruxure-PowerOperation/Power-Operation-2024-CU3-is-HERE/td-p/534769 Reboot needed: yes  

**Vendor fix**  
Version 64.2025.0.14 of iPMFLS includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center for information on how to contact your local Application Center to update the device.
**Vendor fix**  
Version V02.503.101 of PowerLogic™ P5 includes a fix for this vulnerability Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this firmware.
**Vendor fix**  
Version V02.003.001 of PowerLogic™ P7 includes a fix for this vulnerability Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this firmware.
**Vendor fix**  
Version 2.9.5 of PowerLogic™ T300 includes a fix for this vulnerability Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this firmware. A reboot is needed to complete the firmware upgrade
**Vendor fix**  
Version 11.08.03 of PowerLogic™ T500 includes a fix for this vulnerability Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this firmware. A reboot is needed to complete the firmware upgrade
**Vendor fix**  
CPU866e Firmware version 11.06.37 includes a fix for this vulnerability and is available for download. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center to download this firmware. A reboot is needed to complete the firmware upgrade
**Mitigation**  
Schneider Electric is establishing a remediation plan for all future versions of the following models of the Easergy MiCOM P30: P437 P532 P631 P634 P436 P438 P638 Future versions will include a fix for this vulnerability. We will update this document when the remediation is available. Until then, customers should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit: • Ensure P30 operates within a physically or logically segmented internal network. Access to this network should be tightly controlled using standard security mechanisms such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems (IDS), and other relevant protective measures. • Reduce the “Minimum inactivity period” using the CAE tool to shorten session timeout durations and minimize the risk of unauthorized access due to inactive sessions
**Mitigation**  
Schneider Electric is establishing a remediation plan for a future version of the Easergy MiCOM P40 Series model numbers with Protocol Option bit as G, H or L. P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ G_ _ _ _ _ M P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ H_ _ _ _ _ M P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ L _ _ _ _ _ M P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ G_ _ _ _ _ L P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ H_ _ _ _ _ L P_ 4_ _ _ _ _ L _ _ _ _ _ L A future version will include a fix for this vulnerability. We will update this document when the remediation is available. Until then, customers should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit: • Ensure P40 operates within a physically or logically segmented internal network. Access to this network should be tightly controlled using standard security mechanisms such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems (IDS), and other relevant protective measures. • Reduce the “Minimum inactivity period” using the CAE tool to shorten session timeout durations and minimize the risk of unauthorized access due to inactive sessions
**Mitigation**  
If customers choose not to apply the remediation provided above, they should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit:• Ensure P30 operates within a physically or logically segmented internal network. Access to this network should be tightly controlled using standard security mechanisms such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems (IDS), and other relevant protective measures. • Reduce the “Minimum inactivity period” using the CAE tool to shorten session timeout durations and minimize the risk of unauthorized access due to inactive sessions.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 8.3  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:L  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Schneider Electric CPCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## General Security Recommendations
We strongly recommend the following industry cybersecurity best practices. * Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network. * Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks. * Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the “Program” mode. * Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device. * Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks. * Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation. * Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet. * When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices. For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.

## For More Information
This document provides an overview of the identified vulnerability or vulnerabilities and actions required to mitigate. For more details and assistance on how to protect your installation, contact your local Schneider Electric representative or Schneider Electric Industrial Cybersecurity Services: https://www.se.com/ww/en/work/solutions/cybersecurity/. These organizations will be fully aware of this situation and can support you through the process. For further information related to cybersecurity in Schneider Electric's products, visit the company's cybersecurity support portal page: https://www.se.com/ww/en/work/support/cybersecurity/overview.jsp

## LEGAL DISCLAIMER
THIS NOTIFICATION DOCUMENT, THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN, AND ANY MATERIALS LINKED FROM IT (COLLECTIVELY, THIS “NOTIFICATION”) ARE INTENDED TO HELP PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW OF THE IDENTIFIED SITUATION AND SUGGESTED MITIGATION ACTIONS, REMEDIATION, FIX, AND/OR GENERAL SECURITY RECOMMENDATIONS AND IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS-IS” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE OF ANY KIND. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES RELATING TO THIS NOTIFICATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT THE NOTIFICATION WILL RESOLVE THE IDENTIFIED SITUATION. IN NO EVENT SHALL SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES WHATSOEVER IN CONNECTION WITH THIS NOTIFICATION, INCLUDING DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. YOUR USE OF THIS NOTIFICATION IS AT YOUR OWN RISK, AND YOU ARE SOLELY LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES TO YOUR SYSTEMS OR ASSETS OR OTHER LOSSES THAT MAY RESULT FROM YOUR USE OF THIS NOTIFICATION. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC RESERVES THE RIGHT TO UPDATE OR CHANGE THIS NOTIFICATION AT ANY TIME AND IN ITS SOLE DISCRETION

## About Schneider Electric
Schneider's purpose is to create Impact by empowering all to make the most of our energy and resources, bridging progress and sustainability for all. We call this Life Is On. Our mission is to be the trusted partner in Sustainability and Efficiency. We are a global industrial technology leader bringing world-leading expertise in electrification, automation and digitization to smart industries, resilient infrastructure, future-proof data centers, intelligent buildings, and intuitive homes. Anchored by our deep domain expertise, we provide integrated end-to-end lifecycle AI enabled Industrial IoT solutions with connected products, automation, software and services, delivering digital twins to enable profitable growth for our customers. We are a people company with an ecosystem of 150,000 colleagues and more than a million partners operating in over 100 countries to ensure proximity to our customers and stakeholders. We embrace diversity and inclusion in everything we do, guided by our meaningful purpose of a sustainable future for all. www.se.com
