---
alert_code: ICSA-26-125-02
title: "ABB B&R PVI"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-125-02
release_date: "2026-05-05"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: ""
cvss_score: None
cves:
  - CVE-2026-0936
cwe:
  - CWE-532
sectors:
  - "Energy"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB B&R PVI
Release Date
May 05, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-125-02

## Summary
**ABB became aware of vulnerability in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An update is now available that addresses and remediates the vulnerability. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could read sensitive information in the logging data of the PVI client application. Logging is deactivated by default in all PVI client versions.**
The following versions of ABB B&R PVI are affected:
  * PVI <6.5.0, 6.5.0 (CVE-2026-0936)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 5  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB B&R PVI  |  **Vulnerabilities** Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Energy
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2026-0936
An Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File vulnerability in B&R PVI client versions prior to 6.5 may be abused by an authenticated local attacker to gather credential information which is processed by the PVI client application. The logging function of the PVI client application is disabled by default and must be explicitly enabled by the user.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB B&R PVI
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
ABB PVI <6.5.0
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
The problem is corrected in the following product versions: - PVI 6.5.0 Please note that PVI is included in the Automation Studio installation package and shares the same version number as the corresponding Automation Studio release. B&R recommends that customers apply the update at earliest convenience. The process to install updates is described in the user manual. The step to identify the installed product version is described in the user manual.
**Mitigation**  
This vulnerability is limited to the PVI client side application logging and does not impact any security related logging of the PVI server component. Logging is not enabled by default for PVI client applications. Activate logging on the client system only when it is required for troubleshooting, debugging or analysis. Ensure that all client side logging information is securely deleted after it is no longer needed. When enabling logging in PVI client applications, the storage path for the log files must be specified. Make sure that only the respective user has access to the directories where the logging information is stored. Refer to section “General security recommendations” for further advise on how to keep your system secure.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-532 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 5  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N/E:U/RL:O/RC:C  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB PSIRT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by B&R. B&R provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall B&R or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if B&R or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from B&R, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.
