---
alert_code: ICSA-26-125-03
title: "ABB B&R Automation Runtime"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-125-03
release_date: "2026-05-05"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 6.8
cves:
  - CVE-2025-11044
cwe:
  - CWE-770
sectors:
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB B&R Automation Runtime
Release Date
May 05, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-125-03

## Summary
**ABB became aware of vulnerability in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An update is available that resolves a vulnerability. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could cause the product to stop.**
The following versions of ABB B&R Automation Runtime are affected:
  * Automation Runtime <6.5, >=6.5, =R4.93 (CVE-2025-11044, CVE-2025-11044)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 6.8  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB B&R Automation Runtime  |  **Vulnerabilities** Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Critical Manufacturing
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-11044
An Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling vulnerability in the ANSL-Server component of B&R Automation Runtime versions prior to 6.5 and prior to R4.93 could be exploited by an unauthenticated attacker on the net-work to win a race condition, resulting in permanent denial-of-service (DoS) conditions on affected devices.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB B&R Automation Runtime
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
ABB Automation Runtime <6.5, ABB Automation Runtime <R4.93
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
The problem is corrected in the following product versions: - Automation Runtime 6 versions >= 6.5 - Automation Runtime 4 versions >= R4.93 B&R recommends that customers apply the update at earliest convenience. The process to install updates is described in the user manual. The step to identify the installed product version is described in the user manual.
**Mitigation**  
The vulnerability cannot be exploited on all devices or across all customer applications. Extensive investigations by B&R have determined that shorter cycle times in customer projects increase the likelihood of potential exploitation. For customers unable to transition to a patched version, adjusting their application configuration to longer cycle times may therefore be considered as a mitigating measure. B&R Automation Runtime is designed to be operated on Level 1 of the ABB ICS Cyber Security Reference Architecture. Exploitation of the vulnerability from outside Level 1 would require an attacker to bypass the Control Network Firewall. Limiting the maximum data traffic and the maximum number of concurrent connections to the ANSL server of Automation Runtime on the Control Network Firewall, shall be considered to mitigate this vulnerability. B&R further recommends, in alignment with its Defense in Depth for B&R Products guidelines, that customers: - Test the maximum load capacity of their application under Automation Runtime before commissioning. - Restrict the permitted data traffic to the device via the Control Network Firewall to no more than 80% of the measured peak traffic value. Refer to section “General security recommendations” for further advise on how to keep your system secure.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-770 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 6.8  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:N/A:H/RL:O/RC:C  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB PSIRT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by B&R. B&R provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall B&R or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or conse-quential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if B&R or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from B&R, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Frequently Asked Questions
What causes the vulnerability? - The vulnerability is caused by insufficient throttling and limiting mechanism in the ANSL Server used the B&R Automation Runtime. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? - An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could cause the affected system node to stop. How could an attacker exploit the vulnerability? - An attacker could try to exploit the vulnerability by creating a specially crafted message and sending the message to an affected system node. This would require that the attacker has access to the system network, by connecting to the net-work either directly or through a wrongly configured or penetrated firewall, or that he installs malicious software on a system node or otherwise infects the network with malicious software. Recommended practices help mitigate such attacks, see section Mitigating Factors above. Could the vulnerability be exploited remotely? - Yes, an attacker who has network access to an affected system node could exploit this vulnerability. Recommended practices include that process control systems are physically protected, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed. What does the update do? - The update removes the vulnerability by limiting incoming network traffic that is handled by the ANSL server component. When this security advisory was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed? - No, B&R discovered this vulnerability as a part of its own security analysis. When this security advisory was issued, had B&R received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited? - No, B&R had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued.
