---
alert_code: ICSA-26-146-06
title: "ABB LVS MConfig"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-146-06
release_date: "2026-05-26"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 7.4
cves:
  - CVE-2025-9970
cwe:
  - CWE-316
sectors:
  - "Chemical"
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
  - "Energy"
  - "Food and Agriculture"
  - "Transportation Systems"
  - "Water and Wastewater"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB LVS MConfig
Release Date
May 26, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-146-06

## Summary
**ABB became aware of an internally discovered vulnerability in the MConfig product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An attacker with access to local networks who successfully exploits vulnerability could have access to application’s sensitive information. ABB strongly advises customers to update MConfig with latest software version.**
The following versions of ABB LVS MConfig are affected:
  * LVS <=1.4.9.21

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 7.4  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB LVS MConfig  |  **Vulnerabilities** Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-9970
During the runtime of the MConfig Software application, an attacker can export the memory dump file into the operating system. If passwords are stored in plain text in memory, they will be included in these dump files. If such dump files are mishandled, attackers could obtain them and extract the passwords.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB LVS MConfig
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
MConfig Version <=1.4.9.21
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
The vulnerability is resolved in the following product versions: MConfig version 1.4.9.22 ABB advises users to update their devices to the latest software version. Additionally, ABB recommends implementing defensive measures to reduce the risk of vulnerability exploitation, as outlined in the product instruction manual. Please refer to the section “Mitigation factors” for more information
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-316 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 7.4  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:H/A:H/E:P/RL:O/RC:C/CR:L/IR:L/AR:L  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB PSIRT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third-party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Mitigating factors
Mitigating factors describe conditions and circumstances that make an attack that exploits the vulnerability difficult or less likely to succeed. In case customer cannot upgrade the firmware or it is not feasible then please immediately apply mitigating factors mentioned in “General security recommendations”.

## Frequently asked questions
What causes the vulnerability? The vulnerability is caused by code defect allowing the attacker to extract the sensitive information such as user credentials from memory dump of the application. Please refer to Vulnerability severity and details for further details. What is MConfig ? MConfig is the parameterizing software for ABB LV switchgear components such as motor and feeder controller, operation panel, temperature monitoring solutions and protocol converter. The components are physically installed in a low voltage switchgear located in switch rooms that require authority to access. To run this software on a host machine (computer), the operating system should be Win11 or later version. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? If the mentioned vulnerability has been successfully exploited by an attacker, this could allow the attacker to extract sensitive information such as user credentials. With user credentials and access to a host machine with MConfig installed, and access to the switch room with components installed in a switchgear, the attacker can modify the setting of the components potentially compromising its correct operation. How could an attacker exploit vulnerability? An attacker with host machine physical access could, after a user log into MConfig, exploit a vulnerability by exporting a memory dump during runtime, potentially exposing the user's password. Could vulnerability be exploited remotely? The vulnerability can only be exploited if an attacker has physical access to the host machine with MConfig software. What does the update do? MConfig version V1.4.9.22 update has fix for the vulnerability mentioned in Vulnerability severity and details section. The measures below were implemented to fix the vulnerability: • Clear any authentication-related memory data after a successful login. • Hash the passwords in SHA256
