---
alert_code: ICSA-26-146-01
title: "ABB Terra AC"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-146-01
release_date: "2026-05-26"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 6.8
cves:
  - CVE-2025-5517
cwe:
  - CWE-122
sectors:
  - "Commercial Facilities"
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
  - "Energy"
  - "Transportation Systems"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB Terra AC
Release Date
May 26, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-146-01

## Summary
**ABB is aware of vulnerabilities in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could cause the pollution of heap memory which potentially takes remote control of the product and performs a write operation to the flash memory to alter the firmware behavior.**
The following versions of ABB Terra AC are affected:
  * Terra AC wallbox (UL40/80A) <=1.8.32, 1.8.33
  * Terra AC wallbox (UL32A) <=1.8.2, 1.8.34
  * Terra AC wallbox (MID/ CE) <=1.8.32, 1.8.34
  * Terra AC wallbox (JP) <=1.8.2, 1.8.34

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 6.8  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB Terra AC  |  **Vulnerabilities** Heap-based Buffer Overflow  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Transportation Systems
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-5517
There is potential risk to pollute the memory when a specially crafted OCPP message may be sent to a target vulnerable charger by exploiting unencrypted communication to the Charging Station Management System (CSMS) or fully remotely from its CSMS server.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB Terra AC
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
ABB Terra AC wallbox (UL40/80A) <=1.8.32, ABB Terra AC wallbox (UL32A) <=1.8.2, ABB Terra AC wallbox (MID/ CE) Terra AC MID <=1.8.32, ABB Terra AC wallbox (JP) <=1.8.2
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
The problem is corrected in the product versions listed as fixed in the advisory. Terra AC wallbox (UL40/80A) 1.8.33 Terra AC wallbox (UL32A) 1.8.34 Terra AC MID 1.8.34 Terra AC Juno CE 1.8.34 Terra AC PTB 1.8.33 Terra AC wallbox (JP) 1.8.34 Additionally, we strongly recommend not use unsafe mode(http) to connect your charger to your backend even though OCPP is allowed to do in this way, which absolutely could be attacked by malicious man or organization as a common knowledge. ABB recommends that customers apply the update at earliest convenience.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-122 Heap-based Buffer Overflow

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 6.8  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:H/E:P/RL:O/RC:C  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Itai Shmueli of Saiflow reported this vulnerability to Schneider Electric.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Mitigating factors
To attack with this kind of message, hackers must hijack CSMS (OCPP backends) first and then can send messages, OR the way to OCPP backend is unsafe itself (http) which can cause any kind of attack behavior and known as a common knowledge. Refer to section “General security recommendations” for further advise on how to keep your system secure.

## Workarounds
Make sure OCPP backend that chargers are connected is strictly secured to avoid any kind of at-tack especially the communication relevant components. Use https(TLS) as basic communication foundation between charger and OCPP backend instead of http.

## Frequently asked questions
What causes the vulnerability? The vulnerability is caused by firmware which it didn’t limit the length of OCPP field in certain case. What is Terra AC wallbox? Terra AC wallbox is a Level 2 Electric Vehicle charger. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could cause the affected system node to take control of the charger to response wrong messages, Denial-of-Service, compromised internal state, and possibly remote code execution. How could an attacker exploit the vulnerability? An attacker could try to exploit the vulnerability by sending a specially crafted OCPP message to chargers via OCPP backend(CSMS), which could be done remotely. This would require that the attacker has access to the system network and hijack the API of sending message OR hijack the network data directly if the charger is connected with unsafe http mode. Recommended practices help mitigate such attacks, see section Mitigating Factors above. Could the vulnerability be exploited remotely? Yes, an attacker who has network access to an affected system node could exploit this vulnerability. Can functional safety be affected by an exploit of this vulnerability? The charger potentially is running with unpredictable mode, including Denial-of-Service, compromised internal state, and possibly remote code execution. What does the update do? The update removes the vulnerability by modifying the validation rules of receiving data from OCPP backend. When this security advisory was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed? No, ABB received information about this vulnerability through responsible disclosure. When this security advisory was issued, had ABB received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited? No, ABB had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued
