---
alert_code: ICSA-26-139-01
title: "ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-139-01
release_date: "2026-05-19"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 7.1
cves:
  - CVE-2025-3465
cwe:
  - CWE-22
sectors:
  - "Food and Agriculture"
  - "Commercial Facilities"
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10
Release Date
May 19, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-139-01

## Summary
**An update is available that resolves vulnerability in the product versions listed as affected in this advisory. A path traversal vulnerability in these products can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories. Exploiting this vulnerability can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information.**
The following versions of ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10 are affected:
  * CoreSense™ HM <=2.3.1, 2.3.4 (CVE-2025-3465)
  * CoreSense™ M10 <=1.4.1.12, 1.4.1.31 (CVE-2025-3465)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 7.1  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10  |  **Vulnerabilities** Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Food and Agriculture, Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-3465
A path traversal vulnerability in these products can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories. Exploiting this vulnerability can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
CoreSense™ HM<=2.3.1, CoreSense™ M10<=1.4.1.12
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
The vulnerabilities are corrected in the following version: CoreSense™ HM v2.3.4 & CoreSense™ M10 v1.4.1.31 ABB recommends that customers apply the update at the earliest convenience.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 7.1  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damage of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damage. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Mitigating factors
The path traversal vulnerability is only exploitable when the attacker has local access to the machine hosting the web application (i.e., access to localhost). To mitigate this vulnerability, the affected products should be configured to restrict local access to authorized users only, ensuring that untrusted users cannot interact with the application directly on the host system. ABB has restricted file downloads to a specific directory designated solely for downloadable content. Strict input validation and path sanitization are implemented to ensure that only legitimate file paths within this directory can be accessed. Refer to section “General Security Recommendations” for further advise on how to keep your system secure.

## Frequently Asked Questions
What causes the vulnerability? The vulnerability is caused by unchecked input data in the file parameter in the CoreSense products. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories and can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information. How could an attacker exploit the vulnerability? Path traversal would require that the attacker has access to the system local network, by connecting to the system directly or through a wrongly configured or penetrated firewall, or that he installs malicious software on a system node or otherwise infects the network with malicious software. Recommended practices help mitigate such attacks, see mitigating factors section. Could the vulnerability be exploited remotely? No. Can functional safety be affected by an exploit of this vulnerability? No. What does the update do? The update removes the vulnerability by modifying the way that the file parameter validates and verifies input data. When this security advisory was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed? No, ABB received information about this vulnerability through responsible disclosure. When this security advisory was issued, had ABB received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited? No, ABB had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued.
