---
alert_code: ICSA-26-125-01
title: "Hitachi Energy PCM600"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-125-01
release_date: "2026-05-05"
vendor: "Hitachi Energy"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 4.4
cves:
  - CVE-2018-1002208
cwe:
  - CWE-22
sectors:
  - "Energy"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Hitachi Energy PCM600
Release Date
May 05, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-125-01

## Summary
**Hitachi Energy is aware of a vulnerability that affects the Hitachi Energy PCM600 product versions listed in this document. An attacker successfully exploiting this vulnerability can impact integrity of the product. Please refer to the Recommended Immediate Actions for information about the mitigation/remediation.**
The following versions of Hitachi Energy PCM600 are affected:
  * PCM600 Legacy vers:PCM600_Legacy/<=2.11 (CVE-2018-1002208)
  * PCM600 3.0, 3.0_HF1, 3.0_HF2, 3.0_HF3, 3.1, 3.1_SP1, 3.1_SP2, 3.1_SP3 (CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208, CVE-2018-1002208)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 4.4  |  **Vendor** Hitachi Energy  |  **Equipment** Hitachi Energy PCM600  |  **Vulnerabilities** Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Energy
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2018-1002208
SharpZipLib before 1.0 RC1 is vulnerable to directory traversal, allowing attackers to write to arbitrary files via a ../ (dot dot slash) in a Zip archive entry that is mishandled during extraction. This vulnerability is also known as 'Zip-Slip'.

#### Affected Products
##### Hitachi Energy PCM600
**Vendor:**  
Hitachi Energy
**Product Version:**  
PCM600 Legacy Version 2.11 and earlier, PCM600 3.0, PCM600 3.0 HF1, PCM600 3.0 HF2, PCM600 3.0 HF3, PCM600 3.1, PCM600 3.1 SP1, PCM600 3.1 SP2, PCM600 3.1 SP3
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**None available**  
Prior to acquisition, PCM600 product versions 2.11 and earlier were distributed under ABB’s organization. Some Hitachi Energy users may still be operating these legacy versions. While ABB continues to maintain the PCM600 2.x product line, Hitachi Energy now exclusively maintains and distributes the PCM600 3.x product line. ABB has recently published a cybersecurity advisory [2NGA002813] (https://library.e.abb.com/public/ec33308ad2c34f92bab09df09c66954d/2NGA002813_PCM600_Sharpziplib_Vulnerability.pdf) with their recommended actions for this same vulnerability. However, because Hitachi Energy does not maintain or validate the PCM600 2.x releases, they cannot assess or guarantee the compatibility of ABB’s recommended updates with other Hitachi Energy IEDs (Relion 670 series, 650 series, SAM600, PWC600). PCM600 versions 3.0, and later are the Hitachi Energy maintained and validated versions, Hitachi Energy strongly recommends users to migrate to these versions. Additionally, please follow Hitachi Energy's Industrial Control Systems Best Practices, until the planned remediation is released. Contact your support representative for more detailed guidance tailored to your deployment.
**Mitigation**  
Ensure that Chapter 4 of Cyber Security Deployment Guideline - 1MRK505410 has been followed during the deployment. Ensure that no default credentials are in use. In case of exceptions, please ensure they have been mitigated with adequate countermeasures.
**Vendor fix**  
Update to PCM600 3.1 SP4 (Update Planned)
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 4.4  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:N  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Hitachi Energy reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by Hitachi Energy. Hitachi Energy provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall Hitachi Energy or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if Hitachi Energy or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from Hitachi Energy and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Support
For additional information and support please contact your product provider or Hitachi Energy service organization. For contact information, see https://www.hitachienergy.com/contact-us/ for Hitachi Energy contact-centers.

## General Mitigation Factors
It is highly recommended to deploy the product following the “PCM600 3.1 Cyber Security Deployment Guideline” document. Customers should maintain their systems with products running on supported versions and follow maintenance releases. Recommended security practices and firewall configurations can help protect a process control network from attacks that originate from outside the network. Such practices include that process control systems are physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and others that have to be evaluated case by case. Process control systems should not be used for Internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving e-mails. Portable computers and removable storage media should be carefully scanned for viruses before they are connected to a control system.

## SSVC
SSVCv2/E:N/A:N/2026-04-24T14:16:01Z/
