---
alert_code: ICSA-26-141-01
title: "Hitachi Energy GMS600"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-141-01
release_date: "2026-05-21"
vendor: "Hitachi Energy"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 5.9
cves:
  - CVE-2022-4304
cwe:
  - CWE-203
sectors:
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Hitachi Energy GMS600
Release Date
May 21, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-141-01

## Summary
**Hitachi Energy is aware of the vulnerability, CVE-2022-4304 in the OSS component OpenSSL, that affects the GMS600 versions that are listed below. An attacker successfully exploiting this vulnerability could send trial messages to the server and record the time taken to process them. After a sufficiently large number of messages the attacker could recover the pre-master secret used for the original connection and thus be able to decrypt the application data sent over that connection. For immediate mitigation /workaround information, please refer to the General Mitigation Factors/Workarounds**
The following versions of Hitachi Energy GMS600 are affected:
  * GMS600 vers:GMS600/>=1.3.0|<=1.3.1 (CVE-2022-4304)

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 5.9  |  **Vendor** Hitachi Energy  |  **Equipment** Hitachi Energy GMS600  |  **Vulnerabilities** Observable Discrepancy  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Critical Manufacturing
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2022-4304
A timing-based side channel exists in the OpenSSL RSA Decryption implementation which could be sufficient to recover a plaintext across a network in a Bleichenbacher style attack. To achieve a successful decryption an attacker would have to be able to send a very large number of trial messages for decryption. The vulnerability affects all RSA padding modes: PKCS#1 v1.5, RSA-OEAP and RSASVE. For example, in a TLS connection, RSA is commonly used by a client to send an encrypted pre-master secret to the server. An attacker that had observed a genuine connection between a client and a server could use this flaw to send trial messages to the server and record the time taken to process them. After a sufficiently large number of messages the attacker could recover the pre-master secret used for the original connection and thus be able to decrypt the application data sent over that connection.

#### Affected Products
##### Hitachi Energy GMS600
**Vendor:**  
Hitachi Energy
**Product Version:**  
GMS600 versions 1.3.0 and 1.3.1
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
Upgrade to version 1.3.2
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-203 Observable Discrepancy

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 5.9  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Hitachi Energy Internal Team reported this vulnerability to CISA

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by Hitachi Energy. Hitachi Energy provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall Hitachi Energy or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if Hitachi Energy or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from Hitachi Energy and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Support
For additional information and support please contact your product provider or Hitachi Energy service organization. For contact information, see https://www.hitachienergy.com/contact-us/ for Hitachi Energy contact-centers.

## General Mitigation Factors
Recommended security practices and firewall configurations such as enforcing ingress IP allowlisting and applying traffic rate limiting in accordance with the operational security policy can help protect a process control network from attacks that originate from outside the network. Such practices include that process control systems are physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and others that have to be evaluated case by case. Process control systems should not be used for Internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving e-mails. Portable computers and removable storage media should be carefully scanned for viruses before they are connected to a control system.

## SSVC
SSVCv2/E:N/A:Y/2026-04-22T13:37:14Z/
