---
alert_code: ICSA-26-146-03
title: "ABB Ability Zenon Remote Transport Vulnerability (Update A)"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-146-03
release_date: "2026-05-26"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 7.5
cves:
  - CVE-2025-8754
cwe:
  - CWE-306
sectors:
  - "Chemical"
  - "Communications"
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
  - "Dams"
  - "Energy"
  - "Healthcare and Public Health"
  - "Information Technology"
  - "Water and Wastewater"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB Ability Zenon Remote Transport Vulnerability (Update A)
Release Date
May 26, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-146-03

## Summary
**ABB is aware of vulnerabilities in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. The vulnerability enables unauthorized access to the Reboot OS function within the Remote Transport Service, allowing an attacker to trigger a system reboot without the required authentication. This functionality initiates a system reboot on the target machine. However, remote exploitation of this vulnerability is not feasible unless the attacker has already gained access to the network where the affected ABB Ability Zenon system is deployed. At the time of writing, there is no evidence that this vulnerability is being actively exploited in the wild.**
The following versions of ABB Ability Zenon Remote Transport Vulnerability are affected:
  * Ability Zenon >=7.50|<=14

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 7.5  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB Ability Zenon Remote Transport Vulnerability  |  **Vulnerabilities** Missing Authentication for Critical Function  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Chemical, Communications, Critical Manufacturing, Dams, Energy, Healthcare and Public Health, Information Technology, Water and Wastewater
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-8754
In the default configuration of the ABB Zenon software platform, the zensyssrv.exe service is set to start automatically. To utilize the Remote Transport Service, users are required to configure a password beforehand. However, a security vulnerability has been identified that enables unauthorized attackers to bypass authentication mechanisms and remotely initiate a system reboot without proper authorization

#### Affected Products
##### ABB Ability Zenon Remote Transport Vulnerability
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
ABB Ability Zenon >=7.50|<=14
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Workaround**  
• Restrict network access to systems with the ABB Zenon Software Platform installed. - Ensure that access to a system is restricted by implementing access controls to minimize the risk of unauthorized access. • Assess the necessity of the ABB Zenon Remote Transport functionality. - Ensure that if the Remote Transport functionality is not used, the zensyssrv.exe (ABB Zenon System Service) is stopped or terminated. The zensyssrv.exe can also be stopped or terminated after authorized use to prevent this vulnerability.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 7.5  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB PSIRT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hard-ware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Work around
• Restrict network access to systems with the ABB zenon Software Platform installed. - Ensure that access to a system is restricted by implementing access controls to minimize the risk of unauthorized access. • Assess the necessity of the ABB Zenon Remote Transport functionality. - Ensure that if the Remote Transport functionality is not used, the zensyssrv.exe (ABB Zenon System Service) is stopped or terminated. The zensyssrv.exe can also be stopped or terminated after authorized use to prevent this vulnerability.
