---
alert_code: ICSA-26-134-09
title: "Siemens Opcenter RDnL"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-134-09
release_date: "2026-05-14"
vendor: "Siemens"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 7.1
cves:
  - CVE-2026-27446
cwe:
  - CWE-306
sectors:
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Siemens Opcenter RDnL
Release Date
May 14, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-134-09

## Summary
**Opcenter RDnL is affected by missing authentication in critical function in ‘ActiveMQ Artemis’. An unauthenticated attacker within the adjacent network could use the Core protocol to force a target broker to establish an outbound Core federation connection to an attacker-controlled rogue broker. This could potentially result in availability impacts or message injection into any queue via the rogue broker. Breaking the integrity of a message has a low impact due to missing auto refresh functionality and it does not contain any confidential information. ActiveMQ Artemis has released a new version and Siemens recommends to update to the latest version.**
The following versions of Siemens Opcenter RDnL are affected:
  * Opcenter RDnL vers:all/*

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 7.1  |  **Vendor** Siemens  |  **Equipment** Siemens Opcenter RDnL  |  **Vulnerabilities** Missing Authentication for Critical Function  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Critical Manufacturing
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Germany

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2026-27446
Missing Authentication for Critical Function (CWE-306) vulnerability in Apache Artemis, Apache ActiveMQ Artemis. An unauthenticated remote attacker can use the Core protocol to force a target broker to establish an outbound Core federation connection to an attacker-controlled rogue broker. This could potentially result in message injection into any queue and/or message exfiltration from any queue via the rogue broker. This impacts environments that allow both: - incoming Core protocol connections from untrusted sources to the broker - outgoing Core protocol connections from the broker to untrusted targets

#### Affected Products
##### Siemens Opcenter RDnL
**Vendor:**  
Siemens
**Product Version:**  
Opcenter RDnL
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Mitigation**  
Implement and deploy a Core interceptor to deny all Core downstream federation connect packets. Such packets have a type of (int) -16 or (byte) 0xfffffff0. Documentation for interceptors is available at https://artemis.apache.org/components/artemis/documentation/latest/intercepting-operations.html .
**Mitigation**  
Remove Core protocol support from any acceptor receiving connections from untrusted sources. Incoming Core protocol connections are supported by default via the "artemis" acceptor listening on port 61616. See the "protocols" URL parameter configured for the acceptor. An acceptor URL without this parameter supports all protocols by default, including Core
**Mitigation**  
Use two-way SSL (i.e. certificate-based authentication) in order to force every client to present the proper SSL certificate when establishing a connection before any message protocol handshake is attempted. This will prevent unauthenticated exploitation of this vulnerability
**Vendor fix**  
Update to Apache Artemis version 2.52.0 or later version
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 7.1  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:H  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Siemens ProductCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## General Recommendations
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends to protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends to configure the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for Industrial Security (Download: https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security), and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
