---
alert_code: ICSA-26-148-04
title: "ABB Busch-Welcome 2 Wire Door Opener Actuator"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-148-04
release_date: "2026-05-28"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: "v3"
cvss_score: 6.8
cves:
  - CVE-2025-7705
cwe:
  - CWE-489
sectors:
  - "Commercial Facilities"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB Busch-Welcome 2 Wire Door Opener Actuator
Release Date
May 28, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-148-04

## Summary
**ABB is aware of vulnerabilities in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could gain physical, unauthorized access to a Building where the product is installed**
The following versions of ABB Busch-Welcome 2 Wire Door Opener Actuator are affected:
  * Switch Actuator 4 DU vers:all/* 
  * Switch actuator, door/light 4 DU vers:all/* 

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 6.8  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB Busch-Welcome 2 Wire Door Opener Actuator  |  **Vulnerabilities** Active Debug Code  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Commercial Facilities
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2025-7705
Authentication bypass due to compatibility mode enabled by default

#### Affected Products
##### ABB Busch-Welcome 2 Wire Door Opener Actuator
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
Switch Actuator 4 DU -83330 - All Versions, Switch actuator, door/light 4 DU -83330-500 - All Versions
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Mitigation**  
The following actions need to be executed on premise where the respective Busch-Welcome® System is installed: • While the Busch-Welcome® System is in operation, toggle the mode switch on the product from “Door-Open” - to “Light” – Mode, wait one second and switch back to “Door-Open” - Mode. • Restart the Busch-Welcome® System with a Power reset (mains power off and on again). By executing the above steps, the system will recalibrate itself during boot up and will correct the misconfiguration automatically. ABB recommends that customers apply the above listed actions at the earliest convenience.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-489 Active Debug Code

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 6.8  |  **Base Severity** MEDIUM  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:P/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * ABB PSIRT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hard-ware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Mitigating factors
ABB recommends double check the system handbook of a Busch-Welcome® two wire system regarding security advises for the correct installation.
