---
alert_code: ICSA-26-148-03
title: "ABB EIBPORT"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-148-03
release_date: "2026-05-28"
vendor: "ABB"
cvss_version: ""
cvss_score: None
cves:
  - CVE-2021-22291
cwe:
  - CWE-79
sectors:
  - "Critical Manufacturing"
  - "Information Technology"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  ABB EIBPORT
Release Date
May 28, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-148-03

## Summary
**ABB is aware of vulnerabilities in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. A firmware update is available that resolves these privately reported vulnerabilities in the product versions listed as affected in the advisory. An attacker who successfully exploited these vulnerabilities could access sensitive information stored inside the device and can change the configuration of the device.**
The following versions of ABB EIBPORT are affected:
  * EIBPORT V3 KNX (2CLA963710W1001) <3.9.2
  * EIBPORT V3 KNX (2CSM256242R2001) <3.9.2
  * EIBPORT V3 KNX GSM (2CLA963720W1001) <3.9.2

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 8  |  **Vendor** ABB  |  **Equipment** ABB EIBPORT  |  **Vulnerabilities** Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Critical Manufacturing, Information Technology
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** Switzerland

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2021-22291
The vulnerability allows the successful attacker to receive a copy of the session id.

#### Affected Products
##### ABB EIBPORT
**Vendor:**  
ABB
**Product Version:**  
EIBPORT V3 KNX (2CLA963710W1001) Version <3.9.2, EIBPORT V3 KNX (2CSM256242R2001) Version <3.9.2, EIBPORT V3 KNX GSM (2CLA963720W1001) version < 3.9.2
**Product Status:**  
fixed, known_affected
###### Remediations
**Vendor fix**  
ABB recommends that customers apply the update at the earliest convenience.
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-79 Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 8  |  **Base Severity** HIGH  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Psytester reported this vulnerability to ABB.

## Mitigating factors
Recommended security practices and firewall configurations can help protect a process control network from attacks that originate from outside the network. Such practices include that process control systems are physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and others that have to be evaluated case by case. Process control systems should not be used for Internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving e-mails. Portable computers and removable storage media should be carefully scanned for viruses before they are connected to a control system. More information on recommended practices can be found in the documents listed in the Reference section.

## Notice
The information in this document is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners.

## Frequently asked questions
What causes the vulnerability? The session management of vulnerable FW versions of EIBPORT, fails to maintain a secure session management. What is EIBPORT? EIBPORT is a building management system allowing to automate buildings based on the KNX standards. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? An attacker who successfully exploited these vulnerabilities can gain access to the EIBPORT device without authenticating her-, himself. Could the vulnerability be exploited remotely? No, recommended practices include that building automation control systems are physically protected, have no direct connections to the Internet, and are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed. Following these best practices, an attacker cannot exploit the vulnerability remotely. Unfortunately, ABB became aware that some customers have commissioned EIBPORT not according to these best practices but have made the IP address to the device accessible over the Internet or other untrusted networks. ABB emphasizes that this configuration is against the intended use of the system. Can functional safety be affected by an exploit of this vulnerability? No. EIBPORT is not designed as a functional safety device. What does the update do? The update removes the vulnerabilities by modifying the way that the device firmware verifies login credentials and token or session identifiers. Furthermore, it hardens the product configuration wherever possible. When this security advisory was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed? No, ABB had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued. When this security advisory was issued, had ABB received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited? No, ABB had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued.
