---
alert_code: ICSA-26-160-01
title: "Schneider Electric Modicon Network Managed Switches"
url: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-advisories/icsa-26-160-01
release_date: "2026-06-09"
vendor: "Schneider Electric"
cvss_version: ""
cvss_score: None
cves:
  - CVE-2024-3596
cwe:
  - CWE-924
sectors:
  - "Commercial Facilities"
  - "Energy"
  - "Food and Agriculture"
  - "Government Services and Facilities"
  - "Transportation Systems"
  - "Water and Wastewater"
countries: "Worldwide"
---

#  Schneider Electric Modicon Network Managed Switches
Release Date
June 09, 2026
Alert Code
ICSA-26-160-01

## Summary
**Schneider Electric is aware of a RADIUS protocol vulnerability affecting its Modicon Network Managed Switch product. The Modicon Network Managed Switch product provides connectivity for multiple Ethernet devices, network management, enhanced cyber security and more advanced switching features. Failure to apply the mitigation provided below may risk forgery attacks in RADIUS Protocol, which could result in modification of any valid Response (Access-Accept, Access-Reject, or Access-Challenge) to any other response which could result in the possibility of denial of service and loss of confidentiality, integrity of the devices connected to the switch.**
The following versions of Schneider Electric Modicon Network Managed Switches are affected:
  * Connexium Managed Switches vers:all/* 
  * Modicon Managed Switches vers:all/* 
  * Modicon Redundancy Switches vers:all/* 

  
| CVSS  | Vendor  | Equipment  | Vulnerabilities  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS** v3 9  |  **Vendor** Schneider Electric  |  **Equipment** Schneider Electric Modicon Network Managed Switches  |  **Vulnerabilities** Improper Enforcement of Message Integrity During Transmission in a Communication Channel  |  
### Background
  * **Critical Infrastructure Sectors:** Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Government Services and Facilities, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater
  * **Countries/Areas Deployed:** Worldwide
  * **Company Headquarters Location:** France

## Vulnerabilities

### CVE-2024-3596
Additional information about CVE-2024-3596 can be found here:https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2024-3596

#### Affected Products
##### Schneider Electric Modicon Network Managed Switches
**Vendor:**  
Schneider Electric
**Product Version:**  
Connexium Managed Switches All Versions, Modicon Managed Switches All Versions, Modicon Redundancy Switches All Versions
**Product Status:**  
known_affected
###### Remediations
**Mitigation**  
The default RADIUS configuration is not vulnerable. However, if the RADIUS Server Message Authenticator option is disabled, the product becomes vulnerable. We advise keeping this parameter in its default (enabled) state. This parameter can be configured via CLI and SNMP:TCSESM* CLI: radius server msgauthMIB: hmAgentRadiusServerMsgAuth
**Mitigation**  
The default RADIUS configuration is not vulnerable. However, if the RADIUS Server Message Authenticator option is disabled, the product becomes vulnerable. We advise keeping this parameter in its default (enabled) state. This parameter can be configured via CLI and SNMP:MCSESM*, MCSESP* CLI: radius server auth modify msgauth MIB: hm2AgentRadiusServerMsgAuth
**Mitigation**  
The default RADIUS configuration is not vulnerable. However, if the RADIUS Server Message Authenticator option is disabled, the product becomes vulnerable. We advise keeping this parameter in its default (enabled) state. This parameter can be configured via CLI and SNMP:MCSESR* CLI: radius server auth modify msgauth MIB: hm2AgentRadiusServerMsgAuth
**Relevant CWE:** CWE-924 Improper Enforcement of Message Integrity During Transmission in a Communication Channel

#### Metrics  
| CVSS Version  | Base Score  | Base Severity  | Vector String  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  **CVSS Version** 3.1  |  **Base Score** 9  |  **Base Severity** CRITICAL  |  **Vector String** CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H  |  

## Acknowledgments
  * Schneider Electric CPCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.

## General Security Recommendations
We strongly recommend the following industry cybersecurity best practices. * Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network. * Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks. * Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the “Program” mode. * Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device. * Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks. * Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation. * Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet. * When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices. For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.

## For More Information
This document provides an overview of the identified vulnerability or vulnerabilities and actions required to mitigate. For more details and assistance on how to protect your installation, contact your local Schneider Electric representative or Schneider Electric Industrial Cybersecurity Services: https://www.se.com/ww/en/work/solutions/cybersecurity/. These organizations will be fully aware of this situation and can support you through the process. For further information related to cybersecurity in Schneider Electric's products, visit the company's cybersecurity support portal page: https://www.se.com/ww/en/work/support/cybersecurity/overview.jsp

## LEGAL DISCLAIMER
THIS NOTIFICATION DOCUMENT, THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN, AND ANY MATERIALS LINKED FROM IT (COLLECTIVELY, THIS “NOTIFICATION”) ARE INTENDED TO HELP PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW OF THE IDENTIFIED SITUATION AND SUGGESTED MITIGATION ACTIONS, REMEDIATION, FIX, AND/OR GENERAL SECURITY RECOMMENDATIONS AND IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS-IS” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE OF ANY KIND. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES RELATING TO THIS NOTIFICATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT THE NOTIFICATION WILL RESOLVE THE IDENTIFIED SITUATION. IN NO EVENT SHALL SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES WHATSOEVER IN CONNECTION WITH THIS NOTIFICATION, INCLUDING DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. YOUR USE OF THIS NOTIFICATION IS AT YOUR OWN RISK, AND YOU ARE SOLELY LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES TO YOUR SYSTEMS OR ASSETS OR OTHER LOSSES THAT MAY RESULT FROM YOUR USE OF THIS NOTIFICATION. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC RESERVES THE RIGHT TO UPDATE OR CHANGE THIS NOTIFICATION AT ANY TIME AND IN ITS SOLE DISCRETION

## About Schneider Electric
Schneider's purpose is to create Impact by empowering all to make the most of our energy and resources, bridging progress and sustainability for all. We call this Life Is On. Our mission is to be the trusted partner in Sustainability and Efficiency. We are a global industrial technology leader bringing world-leading expertise in electrification, automation and digitization to smart industries, resilient infrastructure, future-proof data centers, intelligent buildings, and intuitive homes. Anchored by our deep domain expertise, we provide integrated end-to-end lifecycle AI enabled Industrial IoT solutions with connected products, automation, software and services, delivering digital twins to enable profitable growth for our customers. We are a people company with an ecosystem of 150,000 colleagues and more than a million partners operating in over 100 countries to ensure proximity to our customers and stakeholders. We embrace diversity and inclusion in everything we do, guided by our meaningful purpose of a sustainable future for all. www.se.com
